[MUSIC] Welcome to Deep Learning and
Large Language Models. After watching this video,
you'll be able to explain the core concepts of generative AI,
such as deep learning, and describe how large language models
can perform human-like tasks. How does deep learning occur? Depth is created with layers, the more
layers of information you process, the deeper your understanding
of life around you. This is how the human brain works, and this is the driving principle
behind deep learning techniques. An artificial neural network, or
ANN, makes deep learning possible. ANNs comprise several computing
units called neurons, which are organized in three connected
layers the input layer, one or many hidden layers, and the output layer. When a vast data set is introduced to the
network, the neurons in the input layer capture the data, the neurons in
the hidden layers then study the data. Each neuron in the hidden layer
contains inherent bias parameters. The connection between two neurons
establishes weight parameters. Parameters can be defined as internal
values of a network that get optimized as neurons repeatedly train
on vast data sets. The higher the number of bias and
weight parameters, the stronger is the computational
power of the network, which leads to increased
predictive accuracy. Sometimes deep learning algorithms are
trained on supervised or labeled data sets, where each input data
point has a known output. Such supervised learning helps create
tools that filter emails, check credit scores, detect fraud, and enable image and
voice recognition systems. While better labeling can lead to
better quality trained algorithms, it introduces some constraints. Supervised learning algorithms
are restricted to deliver a predefined response and labeled data is
time-consuming and costly to obtain. More often than not, deep learning
algorithms are trained on unsupervised or unlabeled data, where the training data consists of input
data without explicit target outputs. Clustering and dimensionality reduction are common
applications of unsupervised learning. In clustering, the algorithms group
similar instances together based on their inherent properties. Whereas in dimensionality reduction,
the algorithms capture the most important features of the data while discarding
redundant or less informative ones. Therefore, unsupervised learning
algorithms are freer to discover patterns and hierarchies within the data set, thereby producing more efficient,
accurate results. This is why a deep learning algorithm's
ability to produce high-quality responses largely depends on the quality of the vast
data set they are asked to explore and query. There is one other factor that can also
differentiate the level of responses produced by deep learning algorithms. The neural network architecture deployed
in deep learning influences the responses produced by algorithms. There are three types of deep
learning architectures that are discriminatingly used: convolutional
neural networks, or CNNs, recurrent neural networks, or RNNs,
and transformer-based models. Convolutional neural networks contain
a series of layers, each of which conducts a convolution or mathematical
operation on a previous layer. When applied to grid-based data, such as
images, CNNs can quickly extract useful information from images to recognize
patterns, classify images, and segment pictures. CNNs are useful in image processing,
video recognition, and natural language processing. In contrast, recurrent neural networks are
more efficient at processing sequential data such as text or speech. They possess a memory component that
enables them to capture dependencies and contextual information over time. RNNs are useful in machine translation,
sentiment analysis, and speech recognition. Transformer-based models
do not use convolutions or recurrence to process data. Instead, they have a two-stack
structure where an encoder and decoder process an exceptionally high
number of parameters to understand language patterns at a greater depth. The deep learning algorithms in
a transformer can analyze and capture the context and meaning of
words in a hierarchical sequence and predict the next word
in the output sequence. The result is the creation of a large
language model that can perform natural language processing, or NLP,
tasks such as content generation, predictive analysis, language translation,
and process automation. These large language models, or LLMs, form the base mechanism for
generative AI applications. Examples of LLMs include OpenAI's
Generative Pre-trained Transformers, GPT-3 and GPT-4, Google's PALM 2,
and Meta's Llama. For instance, GPT-4 is a language
processing AI trained on a massive corpus of text data from the Internet,
including books, articles, and websites. The model has over 170 trillion
parameters, this helps it perform natural language processing tasks,
such as creating content, setting up dialogue systems,
and translating languages. People leverage these capabilities
to write high-caliber essays and case papers, or perform machine
translation and summarization. Organizations use these capabilities to
power chatbots and virtual agents, and even translate international
business communication or their web content into local languages. As deep learning architecture and
technology evolves, LLMs will also deliberate harder
to deliver more accurate and acceptable outcomes, helping generative AI
models perform increasingly complex tasks. In this video, you learned about
the core concepts of generative AI and understood how large language
models perform human-like tasks. LLMs leverage the power of transformer
networks to pretrain deep learning algorithms on vast data sets. These algorithms capture patterns and hierarchies within data sets to generate
accurate human-like responses. This technology makes
generative AI scalable. [MUSIC]