Welcome to Common Prompt
Engineering Tools. After watching this video, you'll be able to describe
the common functionalities of prompt engineering
tools and explain the capabilities of a few common tools for
prompt engineering. Prompt engineering is
the process of designing accurate and contextually appropriate prompts
to interact with generative AI models to generate relevant and
accurate outputs. To aid you with this process, you have diverse prompt
engineering tools. Prompt engineering tools
provide various features and functionalities to
optimize the creation of prompts for desired outcomes. These tools are specifically useful for users who may not be proficient with natural
language processing or NLP techniques, but want to achieve
specific outcomes when using generative AI models. Let's explore the
common functionalities offered by diverse prompt
engineering tools. Firstly, several tools for prompt engineering offer
suggestions for prompts based on a given input
or the desired output. Next, these tools can suggest how to structure prompts for better contextual
communication. They help craft
prompts that provide the necessary context for the model to understand
the user's intent. You can iteratively
refine prompts based on the initial responses from a tool to find the
most effective prompt. Prompt engineering tools
might offer features to help mitigate bias in the response
of a generative AI model. They can guide how to
craft prompts to reduce the likelihood of biased
or inappropriate outputs. These tools can help
create prompts relevant to specific domains such as
legal, medical, or technical. Some prompt engineering
tools offer libraries of predefined prompts
for various use cases that can be customized
for specific needs. Moving forward, let's explore a few common tools for
prompt engineering. Let's start with IBM Watsonx.ai. A platform of integrated
tools to train, tune, deploy, and manage
foundation models easily. The platform includes
the Prompt Lab tool that enables users
to experiment with prompts based on different
foundation models and build prompts
based on their needs. To help you get started, Prompt Lab provides
sample prompts for different use cases, including summarization, classification, generation,
and extraction. To create prompts
specific to your needs, you can train a model by
adding instructions and examples to show the model
how to respond to the input. Moving further, let's
learn about Spellbook. An integrated
development environment, or IDE by Scale AI. With Spellbook, you
can build applications based on a language
model or LLM, and experiment with prompts for various use cases
including text generation, text extraction, classification,
question answering, auto completion,
and summarization. For prompt engineering,
Spellbook includes a prompt editor that enables you to edit and test prompts. You can use prompt templates to leverage structured prompts
for generating text. You can also access pre-built
prompts as examples. Another tool for prompt
engineering is Dust. It provides a web user interface for writing prompts and
chaining them together. You can manage different
versions of chain prompts. It also provides a custom
coding language in a set of standard blocks for processing the outputs provided
by the LLMs. Dust also supports
API integration to integrate other
models and services. Another tool for effective prompt engineering
is PromptPerfect, which can be used to
optimize prompts for different LLMs or
text to image models. It supports common text
models such as GPT, Claude, StableLM, and Llama, and image models such as
DALL-E and Stable Diffusion. For writing or
optimizing a prompt, you first need to select the relevant model for which you want to optimize the prompt. Different models have different
optimizing strategies. You can also select the
add-ons related to preview, quality, language,
and moderation. When you write a prompt,
you can experiment with the autocomplete feature that provides suggestions
as you type. You can further optimize
the written prompt. Here you can see an example that reveals the original
prompt written by a user and the corresponding
optimized prompt generated by PromptPerfect. For a further level
of optimization, you can optimize and refine the prompt step by step
in the streamline mode. You write a prompt, optimize it, and again edit the prompt and optimize until you are
satisfied with the output. Some other popular tools and interfaces provide resources for prompt engineering or help
you experiment with prompts. GitHub provides
vast repositories for prompt engineering and LLMs. The guides, examples,
and tools provided in these repositories help improve prompt
engineering skills. OpenAI Playground
is a web based tool that helps to experiment and test prompts with various
models of OpenAI such as GPT. Playground AI platform
helps you experiment with text prompts for
generating images with the Stable Diffusion model. LangChain is a
Python library that provides functionalities for building and
chaining prompts. Finally, it's interesting
to learn that prompts are also available
for buying and selling. One such example
of a marketplace for prompts is PromptBase. PromptBase supports prompts for popular generative
AI tools and models, including Midjourney, ChatGPT, DALL-E, Stable
Diffusion, and Llama. Through PromptBase,
you can buy prompts specific to your requirements and specific to a model or tool. For example, you can buy
a prompt to generate comical cartoon characters
through Midjourney. Also, if you have good
prompt crafting skills, you can upload and sell
prompts through PromptBase. It also supports crafting
prompts directly on the platform and selling
them on its marketplace. In this video, you learned
that prompt engineering tools provide various features and functionalities to
optimize prompts. Some of these
functionalities include suggestions for prompts,
contextual understanding, iterative refinement,
bias mitigation, domain-specific aid, and
libraries of predefined prompts. A few common tools
and platforms for prompt engineering
include IBM Watsonx.ai, Prompt Lab, Spellbook,
Dust, and PromptPerfect.