Welcome to the legal issues and implications of
generative AI video. After watching this video, you'll be able to identify the
legalities associated with generative AI list laws that can help fight against
AI powered fraud. And discuss the direction
AI regulation can take. Generative AI capabilities,
even on their best day, are raising some serious
legal questions. For instance, our foundation
models training on content that violates data
privacy and copyright laws. Is algorithmic bias going against affirmative
action legislation? Who owns the copyright
to AI generated text, videos, music, and images? More disturbingly,
the emergence of deep fakes has shown us
that AI can be used to manipulate a person's
voice and appearance to generate false information
and commit identity fraud. Did you know that
research has shown that AI powered fraud is the top reason for all
identity fraud committed? There's always the
added danger that generative AI can be used
to develop cyber weapons. According to Forbes.
If ransomware has been detected by
a cybersecurity tool, ChatGPT can generate a different algorithm
to avoid detection. Therefore, a lot of what
foundation models can accomplish must be legally regulated to guard
against identity fraud, misinformation,
copyright infringement, data privacy violations, cyber warfare, and
discriminatory practices. This brings us to a
critical question. What are governments
worldwide doing to regulate the use of foundation
models and generative AI? The first AI legislation
in the world is the European Union's AI Act, which has yet to be
enacted into law. However, the EU's general
data protection regulation gives individuals more
control over their data, which can be used to challenge any unauthorized legal
use of private data. Canada's Artificial
Intelligence and Data Act helps regulate
companies using AI. Canada's voluntary
code of conduct on the responsible
development and management of advanced
generative AI systems identifies measures
companies can apply. What does the law
have to say when an AI generated output resembles an existing
piece of work? US case law states that
copyright owners may be able to prove that such outputs infringe their copyrights. If the AI program, both one had access to their
works and two, created substantially
similar outputs. However, when a US citizen
tried to copyright a visual artwork
that was authored autonomously by an AI program, the Copyright office
denied his application, saying that human authorship is an essential part of a
valid copyright claim. Deep fakes are unethical,
but not illegal. One can use the provisions
in the cyberstalking law, but it cannot be easy to trace the origins of the deep fake. Plus the victim
has to prove that the creator of the deep
fake intended to harm. That's why the Pentagon
is working with research institutions under its Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency, or Darpa, to develop
tech that can detect deep fake videos. In
England and Wales, there's no legislation
that governs AI directly. However, the Online
Harms bill seeks to make sharing deep fake pornography
a criminal offense. In the UK, citizens are encouraged to use existing
laws for defamation, data protection, privacy and harassment to counter
AI induced crime. In India, the Ministry
of Electronics and Information
Technology regulates AI. While there is no legislation
against deep fakes, a victim of a
malicious deep fake can file a complaint
using the provisions in existing laws under
section 66 of the IT act. Capturing, publishing,
or transmitting a person's image in mass media without their consent
is punishable. The Digital Personal Data
Protection Act also protects the unauthorized distribution of sensitive personal data that
can identify an individual. If you're wondering
why governments are not doing more to regulate AI, then there are two
possible answers. First, the generative
AI space is so dynamic that it's
difficult to qualify and quantify with
certainty and speed how the technology is being
used to commit crime. And then establish who is
accountable for the crime. Second, societies must
find a balance between generative AI innovation and
generative AI regulation. Too much regulation can increase business costs and stop citizens
from enjoying benefits, such as professional upskilling, service efficiency,
customized products, and ease of creation. Experts foresee a
situation where generative AI might
solve the problems. It creates two
examples to consider. First, the Pentagon's
Defense Advanced research projects agency trains machines on deep fakes
so they can detect and differentiate between
real and fake ones. Block chain technology, popularly used in the
finance, banking, and healthcare industries,
can be integrated with AI to identify genuine
versus fake content. Organizations like AI firms,
social media companies, and technology giants should dialogue closely with
government bodies and citizen groups to
create thoughtful and progressive AI legislation
for their country. In this video, you explored the legal issues
and implications of generative AI foundation models can be used to commit
identity fraud, spread misinformation,
infringe copyright, violate data privacy,
launch cyber warfare, and worsen discriminatory
practices. Very few laws directly govern
the use of generative AI. As this is a dynamic field, governments and
industry must balance innovation with regulation
of generative AI.