Welcome to Limitations
of Generative AI. After watching this video, you'll be able to describe generative AI's
limitations regarding training data and identify other significant limitations
of generative AI. Generative AI's capability
to generate new well presented and convincing
content has led to its profound use in
commercial and social sectors and diverse industries. However, before it
can be considered a fully functional
business utility, it's essential to address the prominent limitations
of generative AI. These limitations can be probable hindrances for
businesses developing AI, and constraints
for organizations and individuals
using generative AI. Let's explore a few major
limitations of generative AI. The fundamental limitation of generative AI is related
to training data. Generative AI models are not
repositories of information. Instead, they strive to
generate and replicate the knowledge based on the data they have
been trained on. The limitations in training data influence the output
produced by the models. For example, if the
training data set for an image generating model
is limited in scope, the generated images will also be limited in
terms of scope. For instance, if
you ask the model to generate a picture of a cat, it might produce a generic
looking cat without the distinctive features of a particular breed
or individual cat. Many generative AI models are trained on data
with cutoff dates, resulting in outdated or
incorrect information. This leads to the
inability of the models to provide answers about current
information and events. For example, GPT 3.5 is trained on data
until January 2022. Accordingly, when prompted to generate information based on a fact or an event that
occurred after January 2022, the model does not
provide the response or generate an inaccurate
or fictitious response. In such cases, the AI
models are expected to clearly specify the cutoff date on which its response is based. In addition, many generative AI models are not connected to the Internet and
cannot update or verify the information
they generate. With training data
as the main source of the generative AI
models knowledge, there is a requirement for
high quality training data. The training data is expected
to be rich in information, updated, accurate,
and free from biases. The extensive data sets
required for training may not always be readily
available or very costly. For example, for
specific domains like rare medical
conditions or diseases, obtaining sufficient data
may be difficult and costly due to various reasons
such as scarcity of cases, considerations for
patient privacy, and requirements for
specialized medical expertise. Generative AI models require substantial cost computational resources and training time. This can be a concern
for businesses developing and
training AI models. To mitigate the difficulties
regarding data reliance, researchers are working on
data augmentation techniques aimed at generating additional training data from
limited samples. Generative AI excels at analyzing data to identify
patterns and trends, using them to
generate new content. However, it has limitations in understanding the context
when presented with new data, information, or solutions beyond the scope of its
training parameters. For example, let's consider a generative AI model trained to assist in
legal document review. It's been trained on
extensive legal documents, and excels at identifying common legal clauses and
providing relevant suggestions. However, if you present a
novel, complex legal case, the model may struggle to
offer insightful analysis as it lacks the context and
training for such unique, and unprecedented
legal scenarios. Generative AI cannot completely replace human creativity
or critical thinking. It can be creative only within the boundaries of
its training data. It does not possess
the ability to invent an entirely new idea. It cannot think outside the box. An example to consider
is that it can produce information
on an idea or debate, it cannot evaluate which side has more depth or credibility. It cannot recognize
abstract concepts such as humor or sarcasm. All things that
require a human touch. From the user's perspective
a significant limitation of generative AI is its lack of explainability and
interpretability. Generative AI models are often considered to be
complex and opaque. It may be challenging
for users to comprehend how models
generate content, make predictions, or arrive
at specific decisions. This lack of transparency and predictability raises
concerns about the accountability
and reliability of AI generated outputs. In this video, you learned
about the limitations of generative AI that can be constraints for
its wide adoption. The fundamental limitations of generative AI is related
to training data. The extensive datasets
required for training may not always be available or may
be outdated or inaccurate. The limitations in training data influence the output
produced by the models. Generative AI's
understanding and creativity are limited
to its training data. Generative AI cannot completely replace human creativity
or critical thinking. Generative AI lacks explainability
and interpretability. This lack of transparency
and predictability raises concerns about the
accountability and reliability
of generative AI.