Welcome to foundation models. After watching this video, you'll be able to define
the term foundation model, explain key characteristics
of foundation models, identify the capabilities
of foundation models, and explore examples
of foundation models. Stanford University Center for Research on Foundation
Models defines a foundation model as a new successful paradigm
for building AI systems. Train one model on
a huge amount of data and adapt it to
many applications. We call such a model
a foundation model. Let's explore this
definition more closely. The first part of this
definition says train one model on a huge amount
of data. How does this work? A foundation model is a
large general purpose self supervised model that is pre-trained on vast
amounts of unlabeled data, establishing billions
of parameters. Pre-training is a
technique during which unsupervised
algorithms are repeatedly given
the liberty to make connections between diverse
pieces of information. This allows foundation models to develop multimodal,
multi-domain capabilities. Such that they can
accept input prompts and multiple modalities
such as text, image, audio, or video formats and perform
complex and creative tasks, such as answering questions, summarizing documents,
writing essays, solving equations,
extracting information from images, even
developing code. This broad skill set makes these models relevant
to multiple domains. This is in contrast the
smaller generative AI models, which are trained on
restricted domain data and requested to
perform limited tasks. For instance, OpenAI's
Dall-E family of models are considered foundation
models because they can perform many
image related tasks. In contrast, AlexNet
is not classified as a foundational model as it only performs image
classification tasks. Therefore, we can
clarify that while all foundation models have
generative AI capabilities, not all generative AI models
are foundation models. When foundation
models are trained on vast natural language
processing databases, they are called Large
Language Models or LLMs. LLMs develop
independent reasoning allowing them to respond
to queries uniquely, for example, OpenAI's, GPT and class of models
including GPT-3, which is pre-trained on 175
plus billion parameters and GPT-4, which is pre-trained
on an estimated 180 plus trillion parameters. Other examples of large language
models include Google's Pathway Language
Model pre-trained on 540 billion parameters, Meta's Large Language
Model Meta AI pre trained on 65
billion parameters. Google's Bert pre-trained on
340 million plus parameters. Meta's Galactica, an LLM for scientists pre-trained
on 48 million papers, lectures, textbooks,
and websites. Technology innovation
institutes Falcon 7B pre-trained on 1.5 trillion tokens and Microsoft's
Orca pre-trained at 13 billion parameters and small enough to
run off a laptop. It's likely that these
parameters may change as generative AI tools evolve
in their scope and size. Another aspect of models evolving is their
ability to adapt. The definition also
suggests that we can adapt a foundation model
to many applications. This is possible because of
the broad based training of foundation models, which allows them to learn new things and adapt
to new situations. Small businesses can leverage this capability to
create customized, more efficient, generative AI models at an affordable cost. This is why foundation models are also called base models. They help make AI systems more accessible
to businesses and individuals who do not have the resources to train
their models from scratch. In this way, foundation
models enable enterprises to shrink time to
value from months to weeks. Take for example the
evolution of chatbots. OpenAI's GPT-3 and GPT-4 are foundation models that
power the ChatGPT chatbot. Google's PaLM powers the
Google barred chatbot. These are today's
unreasonably clever chatbots. However, if we think back to how early chatbots functioned, we realize that they
were trained on smaller datasets which confine their generative
capabilities. While they could predict
responses based on keywords, they could only provide a
predetermined response. In contrast, chatbots today are pre-trained multiple times
on extensive datasets. They are therefore able to increase their word
prediction accuracy and respond in a more helpful
and creative manner. Try this will you? If you type a single
sentence prompt and chatGPT, you'll likely get more
than a basic response depending on what your
prompt requested. The chatbot may write
a comparative essay, create an infographic, design a checklist or
script a short story. OpenAI's GPT-3 is also
the foundation model for Dall-E. An image generation tool that responds
to text prompts. For a single text prompt, Dall-E generates four high resolution
images in multiple styles, including photo realistic
images and paintings. Another clarification
to note here, while all large language
models are foundation models, not all foundation models
are large language models. Some foundation models use diffusion architecture
capabilities to improve the scale and scope of their image generation
capabilities. For instance, Dall-E uses
transformer architecture. But the latest version
of Dall-E uses sound diffusion to
generate images from text. Stability, AI stable diffusion uses diffusion
architecture to generate high resolution images in realistic cartooning
and abstract styles based on the user's description. Google's imaging uses a
cascaded diffusion model built on an LLM to generate
images from text prompts. As foundation models evolve in their strengths
and applications, we have seen some limitations. Firstly, the desired
output may be biased if the data on which the foundation model is trained is biased. Secondly, LLMs can
hallucinate responses. That means they generate false
information because they misinterpret the context of data parameters
within a dataset. Therefore, you must
verify the accuracy of the output produced by a
generative AI chatbot. With a little caution,
you can enjoy the many benefits
foundation models offer. In this video, you explored the concepts of
foundation models. These models are pre-trained
on billions of parameters, which allows them to develop
independent reasoning and execute a large
variety of complex tasks. Given their multimodal,
multi-domain capabilities, they can serve as
the foundation or base for generative
AI applications.