Welcome to Generative AI Models. After watching this video, you'll be able to identify the core generative AI
models that serve as the building blocks
of generative AI and list their
distinctive features. In the world of generative AI, these four models have
made a significant impact. Variational autoencoders, generative adversarial networks, transformer-based models,
and diffusion models. Each model employs
a different type of deep learning architecture and applies probabilistic
techniques. Let's gain insight
into how they work. Variational autoencoders
or VAEs are the most popular of all generative
AI models for two reasons. A, they work with a diverse
range of training data, such as images, text, and audio. And B, they rapidly reduce the dimensionality
of your image, text, or audio to create a
newer improved version. First, the encoder, which is a self-sufficient
neural network, studies the probability
distribution of the input data. In simple terms,
this means that it isolates the most
useful data variables. This allows the
encoder to create a compressed representation of the data sample and store
it in the latent space. You can think of
this latent space as a mathematical space within
the model's architecture, where large dimensional data is represented in a
compressed format. Next, the decoder
or reverse encoder, which is also a
self-sufficient neural network, decompresses the
compressed representation in the latent space to
generate the desired output. Basically, the algorithms are trained using a maximum
likelihood principle, which means they try to
minimize the difference between the original input data and
the reconstructed output. Although VAEs are trained
in a static environment, their latent space is
characterized as continuous. Therefore, they can
generate new samples by randomly sampling from the probability
distribution of data. Because they can produce
realistic and varied images with little training data, VAEs are used in
image synthesis, data compression, and
anomaly detection tasks. For example, the
entertainment industry uses VAEs to create game maps
and animate avatars. The finance industry uses VAEs to forecast the volatility
surfaces of stocks. The healthcare
sector uses VAEs to detect diseases using
electrocardiogram signals. Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs)
is another type of generative AI model that uses imagery and textual input data. In this model, two convolutional neural networks or CNNs, compete with each other
in an adversarial game. One CNN plays the role
of a generator and is trained on a vast dataset
to produce data samples. The other CNN plays the
role of a discriminator and tries to distinguish
between real and fake samples. Based on the
discriminator's responses, the generator seeks to produce more realistic
data samples. GANs can generate new
realistic-looking images, perform a style
transfer or image to image translation and
even create deep fakes. The finance industry
uses GANs to train models for loan pricing or
generating time series. Tools such as SpaceGAN work
with geospatial data and videos StyleGAN2 is known for creating video
game characters. Unlike variational autoencoders, GANs can be challenging
to train as they require a large amount of data and
heavy computational power. They can potentially create false material which
is an ethical concern. Transformer-based models were introduced a few years ago when recurrent neural networks or RNN started facing a problem
called vanishing gradients. Due to this problem, RNNs were struggling to process
long sequences of text. To get around this challenge, transformers were built with attention mechanisms
that could focus on the most valuable
parts of the text while filtering out the
unnecessary elements. This allowed transformers to model long-term
dependencies in text. For instance, when you
enter a simple prompt, the two-stack transformer
architecture uses an encoder-decoder mechanism to generate coherent and
contextually relevant text. As transformer models can
query extensive databases, they are able to create large
language models and perform natural language
processing tasks such as picture creation, music synthesis, and
even video synthesis. This marks a significant
breakthrough in our approach to content
creation and offers many opportunities for
innovation as has been seen with GPT 3.5 and its subsequent
versions, BERT and T5. Diffusion models are a
more recent addition to the world of
generative AI models. They address the
systematic decay of data that occurs due to noise
in the latent space. By applying the
principles of diffusion, these models try to
prevent information loss. Just as in the
diffusion process, where molecules move from high-density to
low-density areas, diffusion models
move noise to and from a data sample using
a two-step process. Step 1 is forward diffusion, in which algorithms gradually add random noise
to training data. Step 2 is reverse diffusion, in which algorithms turn
the noise around to recover the data and
generate the desired output. Open AI's Dall-E2, Stability AI's Stable
Diffusion XL, and Google's Imagen are mature
diffusion models that generate high-quality
graphical content. Similar to variational
autoencoders, diffusion models also try
to optimize data by first projecting it onto
the latent space and then recovering it back
to the initial state. However, a diffusion
model is trained using a dynamic flow and therefore
takes longer to train. Then why are these
models considered the best option for creating
generative AI models? Because they train hundreds, maybe even an unlimited number
of layers and have shown remarkable results in image synthesis and
video generation. Experiments with generative
AI models continue unabated as unsupervised algorithms throw up one surprise after another. In this video, you learned about the four core
generative AI models that serve as the building
blocks of generative AI. Variational autoencoders
rapidly reduce the dimensionality of samples. Generative adversarial
networks use competing networks to
produce realistic samples. Transformer-based models use attention mechanisms to model long-term text dependencies. Diffusion models address
information decay by removing noise in
the latent space.