Welcome to issues and
concerns about generative AI. After watching this video, you'll be able to explain the common issues
and ethical concerns around generative AI, identify the reasons
for the generic issues and concerns around the
use of generative AI. Research conducted by advisory
organizations points to the growing impact
of generative AI across diverse sectors
and industries. Gartner predicts that
generative AI will account for 10% of all
data produced by 2025. This large scale adoption of generative AI is the result of the diverse and groundbreaking capabilities of generative AI, including natural
language understanding, content creation, image
synthesis, and problem solving. However, the accelerated
capabilities and resulting adoption of generative AI give rise to some critical issues
and ethical concerns. The most prevalent concerns include inaccuracies and biases, data privacy and security, copyright infringement,
and copyright ambiguity. Let's discuss these concerns. Let's say we have a
generative model trained on a large data set of
articles until 2021. When prompted to generate
an article about the discovery of a new planet in our solar system in 2023, the model generated a
fictional, scenario-based, and factually inaccurate
article based on its understanding of astronomy and scientific discoveries. The limitation here is that generative AI lacks
the ability to verify the accuracy of truthfulness of the
information it generates. If the training data
contains inaccuracies, the content generated by the model will
reflect those errors. Also, most generative AI models are pretrained on
vast amounts of data, but are not dynamic
in terms of keeping up with the latest facts
or new information. Apart from inaccuracies, training data can also
be subject to biases. Biases may occur when the
training data is poorly sampled and does not accurately
reflect the real world. The common pattern of biases
that can be visible in a generative AI model is negative or outdated
stereotypes and discrimination. For example, an image generative AI tool may generate images of a middle-aged white man when prompted to generate
an image of a CEO. Stereotypes related to gender, race, religion, or
other demographics, political bias, cultural
and language biases, and historical beliefs or
practices have also been noted. To avoid or reduce these biases, it's important to ensure that the training data is
diverse and representative. Developers and users must
work to address this through careful data selection and fine-tuning and evaluation
and improvement processes. Next, let's focus
on data privacy and security aspects related
to generative AI. Any data or queries
you prompt into open source AI models can
be used as training data. This data may include
sensitive information, including personally
identifiable information, or PII, or confidential
information of an organization. As a result, the generative
AI model may reveal a user's personal or an
organization's confidential data both by mistake and by design as part of its output
and make it public. The data privacy and
security concerns can be extended to copyright
and legal exposure. The generative AI models can
reveal the original data and content of creators or organizations as part
of their output, which can be used
and explored by other users and organizations. Accordingly, a model
can infringe upon the copyrights and
intellectual property rights, or IPRs, of users
or other companies. In addition, generative
AI models may generate content that includes copyright
elements such as logos, trademarks, or
copyrighted images. Using such content for
commercial purposes without permission can
result in legal action. Another related concern
is copyright ambiguity. That is, the ownership
of AI-generated content. This determines who
has the authorship of the content and creative works generated through AI models. There are a few primary
questions to consider. Firstly, who would have ownership
of the created content? For example, consider an
AI-generated image based on or similar to the
famous painting of Mona Lisa by Leonardo Da Vinci. Who owns the ownership and title for such generated
creative work? The artist of the
original image, the organization
that owns and trains the AI model that
generated this image, or the user who prompted the model to
generate such image? Moreover, is it even fair and ethical for generative AI to create art or content that closely resembles others' work? Or another question
to consider is, should the content created by AI be eligible for
copyright protection? You could say that
it's not because it's not the output of
human creativity. However, one could also argue
that it is because it is the output of algorithms and programming together
with human input. Determining the ownership
and licensing of AI-generated content is
currently a questionable topic. Currently, there are only a few legally mandated regulations regarding the development or
use of AI-generated content. Accordingly, AI
developers should take the lead and develop their own ethical
generative AI policies to protect themselves
and their customers. For example, they
must ensure that the training data is
representative and unbiased. Confidentiality of users'
personal information and their data must be
respected during the training, development, and deployment
of generative AI models. As a user, it's
challenging to ensure that you're using
generative AI ethically. However, a few
considerations can be considered while using
a generative AI tool. For example, don't input information that is
confidential, sensitive, or constitutes intellectual
property violation and analyze the output for factual errors and biased or
inappropriate statements. In this video, you
learned about some of the common ethical concerns and issues around generative AI. These concerns include
inaccuracies and biases, data privacy and security, copyright infringement,
and copyright ambiguity. A few reasons for
these issues include the limitations or
inaccuracies in training data, the use of sensitive,
confidential, or personally
identifiable information for training the model, and the lack of legally
mandated regulations regarding the development or
use of AI-generated content.