[MUSIC] Welcome to the capabilities
of Generative AI. After watching this video, you'll be able
to describe some of the capabilities of generative AI and
explore their use in the real world. Let's start with a high level overview of
some of the capabilities of generative AI that we'll discuss. First is the text generation
capability of generative AI, that is, its ability to generate clear, lucid, and
contextually relevant textual responses. The second capability is image generation,
that is, synthesizing artistic and realistic images that are very
similar to real ones. The third capability is audio generation. Generative AI enables music composition
and synthetic audio generation. The fourth capability well
discuss is video generation. Generative AI enables
the generation of dynamic films and small videos based on textual
descriptions and even images. The fifth capability is the code
generation capability of generative AI. Generative models can generate
code functions and programs well also discuss the data generation and
augmentation capability of generative AI. This helps generate synthetic data
to create and augment datasets. Finally, well explore generative
AI's capability to create real and immersive virtual worlds. These are just some of
the capabilities of generative AI. Essentially, whatever the human
mind is capable of conceiving is a potential use case for
the application of generative AI. Now lets delve deeper into
some of these capabilities. Lets begin with the text generation
capabilities of generative AI. At the core of generative AI's text
generation capability are advanced AI powered Large Language Models or LLMs. LLMs are trained on large datasets and can generate human like
text in various contexts. These models learn patterns and structures
within the data to generate coherent and contextually relevant responses. These models generate text, converse and
provide explanations, summaries, and more. Some popular LLMs are OpenAIs
generative pre trained transformer or GPT, and
Googles pathways language model or PaLM. These models can perform various language
related tasks such as text completion, summarization, question answering,
translation, code generation, and image and text pairing. Conversational interactions
with chatbots and virtual assistants are powered by LLMs. Lets look at the image generation
capabilities of generative AI. Generative models can generate high
quality, convincing images based on deep learning techniques such as generative
adversarial networks or GANs, and variational autoencoders or VAEs. These generated images exhibit
realistic textures, natural colors, and fine grained details, giving
the impression of a real camera capture. StyleGAN, for example,
can generate high quality, high resolution new images of
imaginary faces, animals, or nature. While DeepArt can create comprehensive
artwork from a simple sketch. DALL-E can generate entirely new
images as described by the users. Apart from applications in art,
design, entertainment, gaming, and research domains, generated
images can augment training, data and aid medical imaging and
scientific visualization. In the context of audio generation,
generative models can generate new musical compositions, convert text
into audio using text-to-speech or TTS, and create synthetic voices and
natural sounding speech. Generative models can convert, modify,
and transform and clean up voices, also reduce noise and
enhance audio quality. These models also have the capability to
mimic human voice to a fair amount of likeness. WaveGAN, for example, can create new and
realistic raw audio waveforms, including speech, music,
and natural sounds. MuseNet from OpenAI can
combine various instruments, styles, and genres to generate
novel musical compositions. Googles, Tacotron 2 and Mozilla TTS
use advanced TTS systems to create synthetic speech resembling human tone,
pitch, modulation, pronunciation, rhythm, and expressions. Audio generated by generative
models has applications in media, creativity, entertainment, training,
education, gaming, virtual reality, and several other domains. Now lets look at the video generation
capabilities of generative AI. Generative AI models
can create dynamic and lucid videos ranging from basic
animations to complex scenes. These models transform images into
dynamic videos by incorporating temporal coherence. In natural language processing temporal
coherence refers to the consistency and continuity of meaning or
context over time. This enables these models to
exhibit smooth motion and plausible transitions in videos. For instance,
a popular AI model VideoGPT follows textual prompts users provide
to generate new videos. Users can specify the desired content and
guide the video generation process, including completion, editing, synthesis,
prediction, and style transfer. These generated videos can be
used in domains such as art, entertainment, education,
gaming, medicine, and research. Now let's talk about generative
AI's code generation capabilities. Generative models can generate
new code snippets, functions, or complete programs based
on desired functionality. Trained on existing code repositories,
these models can complete or create code, synthesize or refractor code, identify and
fix bugs in code, test software, and create documentation including comments,
function descriptions, and usage examples. For instance, GitHub copilot and
IBM Watson code assistant are AI based programming assistants that help
autocomplete code, accelerate hard tasks, and generate code for provided input. AI generated code can be used in software
and web development, machine learning and natural language processing,
data science and analytics, robotics and automation, virtual game and
AR/VR environment development, and audio, video and speech processing. Software developers can benefit from
leveraging code generation capabilities to write, debug, and test their code. Now let's explore the data generation and augmentation capabilities
of generative AI. Generative models can generate new
data and augment existing datasets. Generating synthetic data sets
helps increase the diversity and variability of the data, leading to
more robust and effective performance. These models can generate new samples and
augment data sets for images, text, speech, tabular data and statistical
distribution, time series, data finance, and more. The data generation and
augmentation capabilities of generative AI have applications in medicine,
healthcare, gaming, education and training, art and creativity,
self driving automobiles, and many more. Another powerful capability of generative
AI models is their ability to create highly realistic and
complex virtual worlds. You can create avatars that
simulate realistic behavior, expressions, conversations,
and even decisions. You can also create complex virtual
environments with realistic textures, sounds, and objects that follow
the principles of the physical world. Metaverse platforms use generative
models to create unique and personalized experiences for
individual users. Generative AI also makes it possible to
create virtual identities with unique personalities, avatars that can be fitted
with specific personality traits that reflect in their behaviors and
conversations. The virtual world capability of
generative AI has applications in gaming, entertainment, education, augmented and
virtual reality metaverse platforms, and also virtual influencers and
digital personalities. In this video,
you learned about some of the capabilities of generative AI models and
their use in the real world. Generative AI can create coherent and
contextually relevant content and generate realistic, high quality images, synthetic
voices, new audio and dynamic videos. And generative AI models can generate and
complete code and synthesize new data to augment
the existing datasets. Generative AI models are also capable
of creating highly realistic and complex virtual worlds, including virtual
avatars and digital personalities. [MUSIC]